# Energy and Human Development

The effect of energy consumption on economic growth is a wide area of research and teaches us that energy is in fact one of the most important driver of economic development. In our study, instead of considering the raw economic growth, we weigh human development and its core components: long and healthy life, level of education and standard of living (GDP per capita and related). We put to the test some intuitive insights between energy consumption and human development.

- [Contributors](https://github.com/AntoninVidon/energyhumandevelopment/graphs/contributors)
- [Rendered bookdown](https://antoninvidon.github.io/energyhumandevelopment/)

This project is an assignment for STAT GR 5702 (EDAV) at Columbia University.

The tasks are divided as following.

Jannik:
- Answer the questions:
  - Is an energy mix oriented towards renewable sources associated with good human development indicators?  What characterises the countries that have the most renewable energy mix?  
- Write project "Data" chapter
- Conduct data cleaning and missing value analysis on the energy dataset
- Final review of formatting and language

Antonin:
- Answer the questions:
  - How is the increase in energy consumption boosting the education system in order to cope with theindustrial ”boom” generated by rapid economic growth?
  - What are the most important factor that determine how a variation of energy consumption affect thehuman development index of a country?  Is the rate at which the HDI increases with respect to energyconsumption constant, or does it start to decrease after a specific GDP per capita?
- Conduct data cleaning and missing value analysis on the life expectancy, schooling, and GDP datasets
- Write project introduction

Both contributors will produce input for the chapters 05-Results, 06-Interactive, and 07-conclusion based on the questions they are answering. 